# ARC204 Cost Optimize a Workload
https://wellarchitectedlabs.com 

## Introduction
 This hands-on lab will guide you through the steps to perform a baseline on your workload, measure its efficiency and then perform Cost Optimization cycles on it.

The first time you perform this lab it is recommended to use the sample files supplied, then you can use your own application and billing files.


## Goals
- Understand workload demand profile
- Understand workload resource profile
- Understand workload cost
- Measure workload efficiency in cost per outcome
- Learn how to find and perform Cost Optimization on a workload

## Prerequisites
- A subscription to Amazon QuickSight 
- Basic understanding of SQL preferred


## Permissions required
- S3
- AWS Glue
- Amazon Athena
- AWS Systems manager
- Amazon QuickSight

<BR>

## Place the following files into a temporary S3 Bucket:
- [Step1_access_log.gz](CostOpt_Workload/Code/Step1AccessLog.gz)
- [Step2_access_log.gz](CostOpt_Workload/Code/Step2AccessLog.gz)
- [Step3_access_log.gz](CostOpt_Workload/Code/Step3AccessLog.gz)
- [Step4_access_log.gz](CostOpt_Workload/Code/Step4AccessLog.gz)
- [Step5_access_log.gz](CostOpt_Workload/Code/Step5AccessLog.gz)

- [Step1CUR.gz](CostOpt_Workload/Code/Step1CUR.gz)
- [Step2CUR.gz](CostOpt_Workload/Code/Step2CUR.gz)
- [Step3CUR.gz](CostOpt_Workload/Code/Step3CUR.gz)
- [Step4CUR.gz](CostOpt_Workload/Code/Step4CUR.gz)
- [Step5CUR.gz](CostOpt_Workload/Code/Step5CUR.gz)


## [Step1](CostOpt_Workload/Step1.md)

## [Step2](CostOpt_Workload/Step2.md)

## [Step3](CostOpt_Workload/Step3.md)

## [Step4](CostOpt_Workload/Step4.md)

## [Step5](CostOpt_Workload/Step5.md)

## [Step6](CostOpt_Workload/Step6.md)

<BR>
<BR> 


***

## License
Licensed under the Apache 2.0 and MITnoAttr License.

Copyright 2019 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. A copy of the License is located at

https://aws.amazon.com/apache2.0/

or in the "license" file accompanying this file. This file is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
